Types of applications
=====================
We have two types of applications.

1) Client Based Applications 

2) Web Based Applications 

1) Client Based Applications 
----------------------------
Applications which are running in a user's computer are called client based applications.

In general, applications which are need to be installed in a user's computer are called client based applications.

Client based applications are used by perticular user.

Client based applications are ruled out.

ex:
	VLC Media player 
	Ms-Office 
	
2) Web Based Applications 
-------------------------
Applications which can access from anywhere over the internet are called web based applications.
ex:
	Flipkart
	Facebook
	Amazon
	and etc.


Q) How can we develop an application accessible by thousands and lakhs of users?

First developer develops the application.

Later that application will be hosted on the top of the server.

Diagram: aws1.1



Q) What is difference between PC and Server?

PC						Server
--------					---------
A personal computer is designed for 		Server is designed to operator multiple users.
single user.

It is having simple structure.			It is having complex structure.

It contains low network capability.		It contains high network capability.

It contains single processor.			It contains multiple processors.

It contains less storage from gigabytes		It contains high storage from terabytes to
to terabytes.					petabytes.



Q) Companies will use one server or multiple servers?

It depends upon scale of the company.
Companies revenue is relay on servers. 
Companies ensure that these server must operate all the times.


To deploy our application on the top the server we need to create infrastructure.

Each and every IT company having their own data center.

Data center is a place where we will host our servers.

Diagram: aws1.2



Q) Is it easy to create a data center?

No , it not easy to create a data center because it is capital intensive.

Specially , startup's can't effort data center.



To build an application on the top of the servers we need organize the infrastructure.

Each and every IT company will have their own data center.

A data center is a place where we host our servers.

Diagram: aws1.2

Maintaining a data center is a very big deal.

1. Required private and secure place
2. Server maintainence team (database admin,network admin,monitoring team and etc). 
3. 24/7 we need to maintain temperature 16 to 19 degree celsius. 
4. 24/7 Dual power supply  (government and private power supplier)
5. 24/7 Dual Network (ISP)
6. Need to follow geographical orders/standards to protect customer data which 
   contains physical security and network security.
7. Hardware Refresh 
 

Q)Do you think is it easy to organize data center?

No, it is not easy to organize the data center.

Specially startup's can't be proceeded because data center is a capital intensive.

If we see, From 2009 to 2022 number of IT companies are drastically increases 
due to cloud.



Q)What is Cloud computing ?

Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go model. 

Example:
	Assume that my business is a e-commerce.
	During christmas or festival time I need thousands of servers and 
	those servers i am using only for limited days.


	Q)Do you think it is wise to buy thousands of servers only for limited days 
	and keeping them ideal for rest of the days? 

	OR 

	Q)I can lease them for few days and return them once it is done?

	answer : lease . 


That's where cloud providers came into the picture.
ex:
		Amazon
		Microsoft
		IBM
		Google
		Alibaba
		and etc.

In 2002,2003 , Amazon they starting their e-commerce , keeping the future demands in mind they got extends amount of hardware and their calculation absolute went wrong.

Whatever the forecasting they have done with respective to utilization it really went bad and they felt that only 20% to 30% of servers they are using.Almost 70% of their prediction went wrong and they left with no choice.

One of the intern of amazon got an idea , why don't we give our excess amount of server on lease for the people who want.In that way idea of cloud came to a picture.
ex:
	AWS
	Azure
	GCP
	alibaba cloud
	IBM cloud
	and etc

In 2004 the concept of cloud started.


Q)What is AWS?

AWS stands for Amazon Web Services.

It offers infrastructure as a service.

From 2004 to 2014 they are monopoly in industry.

AWS was a leader for almost 10 years.

Almost 75% to 80% of market occupied by AWS i.e Out of 100 , 75 to 80 customers are aws customers. 

It is one of the leading cloud service provider accross the world.

In 2014 , microsoft Azure came in to a picture.
















































